Nuclear Security and Non-Proliferation
==========================================

.. figure:: ../people/cvt.png
    :align: right
    :width: 100

As part of the
`Consortium for Verification Technology <http://cvt.engin.umich.edu/>`_ (CVT),
|Cyclus| is being used to study issues in nuclear security and
non-proliferation. Cyclus is a open-source nuclear fuel cycle simulation tool
developed at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (fuelcycle.org).  It can be
used to model the flow of nuclear material through the fuel cycle, including
isotopic change due to transmutation and decay.  Its flexible design enables
it to also incorporate decision-making at the facility, institution, and
regional levels.  Cyclus can be used in the context of nuclear material
production and tracking to provide synthetic datasets of fuel cycle signatures
and observables that can be used to support the development of new technologies
and analysis algorithms to detect illicit material diversion or production.
This capability is particularly useful because diversion events are rare and
very little experimental data is available in open literature.  

Other research areas of interest include the incorporation of social-behavioral
models to agent interactions to model expected and illicit patterns, nuclear
material tracking and forensics, state level interactions that precipate,  and
detector sensitivity estimation.

.. figure:: Cyclus_CVT_integration.png
    :align: center
    :width: 650
    :alt:  |Cyclus| and the CVT Mission

|Cyclus| sits at the intersection of several thrusts of the CVT mission.
|Cyclus| incorporates signals available to inspectors with behavorial models
for diversion to inform detector development and analysis techniques.



Posters and Presentations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

Oct 2016 - "State-Level Decision-Making in a Regional Model of Proliferation Risk", Consortium for Verification Technology Workshop, Ann Arbor, MI

Sept 2016 - "Cyclus Nuclear Fuel Cycle Simulator as a Synthetic Testbed of Systems-Level Diversion Signatures",  Holtz Center for Science and Technology Studies, University of Wisconsin-Madison

July 2016 - "Cyclus as a Synthetic Testbed of Systems-Level Diversion Signatures", 57th INMM Annual Meeting, Atlanta, GA

June 2016 - "Using Cyclus to Generate Synthetic Multi-modal, Systems-Level Observables", University and Industry Technical Interchange, Raleigh, NC

Oct 2015 - "Modeling Material Diversion with the Cyclus Fuel Cycle Simulator",  International Student Young Pugwash Meeting, Nagasaki, Japan \\

June 2-4, 2015 - "Agent-Based Modeling of Open and Clandestine Fuel Cycle
Facilities", University & Industry Technical Interchange (UITI) Program, Ann
Arbor, MI

April 30, 2015 - `Modeling Diversion of Nuclear Material using the Cyclus Fuel Cycle Simulator <http://www.ucsusa.org/nuclear_weapons_and_global_security/summer-symposium/security-webinars-lectures.html#mcgarry>`_ Global Security Webinar
(hosted by the Union of Concerned Scientists)

Oct 16-17, 2014 - `Cyclus: Agent-based Modeling of Open and Clandestine Fuel Cycle Facilities <http://cvt.engin.umich.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/173/2014/10/Wilson-Wisc-2014.10-Kickoff-Mtg-final.pdf>`_ , CVT Kickoff Meeting, Ann Arbor, MI

 
